

Currently i am working on developing Auto Switch algorithm on buds. 
Samsung is launching a new product where buds are worn like earrings. So they are reversable. 
I am developing that algorithm. After wear on is detected. We take accel values at 20 ms for 400 ms. 
Ie total 20 values. We find the max and min value by magnitude. We use a low pass filer on our values. 
We find the mean our values in this period. And put threashold checks on it. 

Before this i have developed proximity sensor algorithm for wear on detection. 
Samsung inherently used skin sensor for ear detection. 
I was tasked to make an algorithm using proximity sensor.
In that we take sensor data from proximity sensor. It gives a raw number value. 
But the main problem was deciding the reference value. 
Because the open air values of proximity sensor changes with height and pressure. 
So we decided to do calibration once at factory level(fallback value) and once at user level. 
Using data estimates, we computed that inEar values are usually 2000 more than open air raw values. 
And open air raw values are computed using calibration. 
We also used accel sensor to detect no move table condition as on table accel is stable and variance is is very low. 
So if the variance is in particular low range we detect table and turn on the buds.

Prdometer -> step correction->

PVR -> Product Verification Result
PRA -> Product Readiness Approval
SRA -> Shipment Release Approval
CHALLENGES 
1. When software release happens-> PVR, PRA : we have to be available 24 hours. 
    Any issue which comes has to be concluded immediately. 
2. ⁠during PVR, PRA, at times the respective teams deny to accept the issue as there. 
    So we have to at times work their end of ownership.
3. ⁠as we work on devices, at times we face hardware issues..which delay our work. 
    I work on buds, only my and 2 tensters in srin have the devices which i require. 
4. Sensor changed from bestech to QUALCOMM, redesign all APIs on famework layer

CHALLENGES 
1. When software release SR happens : we have to be available 24 hours. 
    Any issue which comes has to be resolved in 6 hours. 
2. ⁠during software release, at times the respective teams deny to accept the issue as there. 
    So we have to at times work their end of ownership.
3. ⁠as we work on devices, at times we face hardware issues..which delay our work. 
    No team shared their devices as everyone has limited resources. 
    So if your hardware doesnt work..it become really difficult to debug..
    you have to keep good friendly relations with people.
4. Sensor changed from bestech to QUALCOMM, redesign all APIs on famework layer


LEAVING SAMSUNG

1. Honestly it is really difficult for me. Samsung has given me alot, good friends, 
    great seniors and a lot of learning. 
2. When i joined i was given watch sensor algorithms. 
    They had legacy algorithms, there wasent much development there. 
    But there were a lot of maintenance and market issues.
3. Soon after i was given watch buds project as the 2 seniors
    who used to handle buds earlier both had resigned. 
    One of them was actually from my college only. SO he really taught me alot about how sensor 
    algorithms work, how we handle data, how porting is done, and how is the whole architecture of the code. 
4. I completely took over buds project since then. 
    I was lucky in that regard that i got such a big project so early 
    in my career. it is a really important product as buds is a highly profitable device for the company.
5. the entire code base is in cpp, a language which i really love to work in. 
6. so leaving Samsung is really hard for me, but i want to learn more things.
7. I was really intruiged by this specific role as it worked in windows, 
    I have worked with Samsung's OS Tizen before. Windows is world famous, 
    I was to learn and work on it. The code base Tizen and windows both is in 
    cpp so that was also a plus point for me. this role included working with 
    cloud as well, i haven't worked on cloud previously, but i want to learn that. 
    So all in all, it will be a really good learning experience for me. working with 
    cloud, deploying new services and learning about windows OS.  
    Learning about windows OS is something really exciting for me. 
 
I am looking at Microsoft as my long term employer. I have heard from my seniors it has a great working environment. So thats a bonus.
